Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, Namo Buddha, the
four masters, Shakyamuni Buddha, Namo
Buddha, the four lands, Shakyamuni, going, going, with
glasses, dear fellow practitioners, Ba Vang Pagoda is
about to have a group of lay practitioners coming out.
I will come out
when the opportunity arises, my mind will be completely
enlightened. I would like to share with you all
a topic: why we need to respect the physical
form of those who have renounced the world, called the
monastic form. The physical form of a person who has been
ordained and has their
head shaved is two parts: the
monastic form, which is the physical appearance of a person who has renounced the world,
and the spiritual appearance of a person who has renounced the world, which
is the food that harms the monastic form and the
virtues of a person who has renounced the world. So today
we will talk about the monastic form, which
is the physical appearance of a person who has renounced the world.
Today we have fellow practitioners.
We may be fellow practitioners, lay
practitioners, but when our master and
the monks shave our heads and ordain us,
we have taken a new step, a
new path, a path that brings forth the
physical form of a person who has renounced the world.  Tam
Chieu Hoan Quan would like to
share, through this sutra, about the path of enlightenment
in our spiritual path. Why
should we respectfully revere the image
of the person who delivered the sutra? Sutra number 142 in
the Mi Tien Q&A sutra, titled "
A Layman Arhat Business Buying and Selling Mendā," asks, "The
Venerable One seems to be pushing the Venerable One to say to me
that a layman who attains Arhatship on a
certain day must immediately relinquish it on that same
day. If, for some reason, he
cannot relinquish it on that day, he is
forced to enter Nirvana." Is
that true?
I think it's more comprehensive for our spiritual path to
hear this lecture on the channel of
Master Thich Truc Thai Minh,
while Tam Chieu Hoan Quan only shares with
our spiritual path what a lay Buddhist can practice. The
Venerable One is the first to answer the king's question, which is completely
correct.
The Venerable One then asks if they can shave off their
beards and hair themselves. Does that mean they need a
teacher to guide them, or do they need a teacher? The
Venerable One
is the first to answer.  It cannot be
done arbitrarily; one must have a teacher or master to perform the ritual. Self-cultivation,
mixing in the robes of a monk, or the appearance of a monk, is
not present in the teachings of the Venerable Master.
Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners,
when someone wants to renounce the world and practice the Dharma in the
Buddha's teachings, they cannot simply shave their head, buy a set of clothes like those worn by monks, and become a monk. To become someone who can penetrate the Buddha's teachings, one
must seek a teacher to perform the ritual of hair
cutting
for them.
That is the karmic connection. The Buddha's Enlightenment
is seeing the true workings
of all beings in
this world.
Therefore, all the words the Buddha
spoke are not dictated by the Buddha himself,
but by the Buddha's perception.
For example, the mind's contemplation of the
complete view also has a path; you can see that the
flower is wrapped in a piece of
plastic, and we see it from the outside.
However our Buddha
saw things, we
neither add nor subtract from the truth. Just
as the piece of plastic on the flower is done,
Shakyamuni Buddha also did not add or subtract from
any truth in this world. He
didn't add or subtract anything, dear fellow practitioners.
Here, we must understand it this way: it's
not that Shakyamuni Buddha
or any of the Buddhas are people who
arbitrarily bestowed something upon others. It's not that they simply
saw the truth,
knew the truth, and spoke the truth to
us. That is a very true thing,
without adding or subtracting anything, without any personal opinion. It's the same
here. Venerable
Arhat Na-sien said, "Repeat a truth:
no one can,
by shaving their head and buying a monk's robe,
become a monk.
Such people lack the
karmic affinity to understand
and practice the Dharma. That is, if they don't understand and
practice correctly, they cannot do it."
Let's consider an Arhat, a
layperson who has already attained enlightenment.
Even an Arhat cannot spontaneously attain enlightenment.
Please continue reading. Ah, yes,
the king of the land of the dead asked again. So,
after a layperson attains enlightenment, the
masters who guide them, those with
supernatural powers, immediately appear and perform the ceremony of
leaving the layperson's home. There might
be such a case. The great king
then asked, "What if they
arrive one or two days late?" This means the
Romans created a
hypothetical situation: in the scriptures, on the day this layperson attains
Arhatship, if the
master who comes to guide them arrives
one or two days late, is that not allowed?
The great master replied, "Of
course not. The layperson who has attained enlightenment
must go and find the master who will guide
them in that dwelling place. If they cannot find him,
by the
time the sky is still clear on that day, the layperson must
enter the realm of the dead. That is, when the masters
attain Arhatship, the remaining beings
remain in this world to
help sentient beings.  The karmic connection of the enlightened ones is such that they
only enter Nirvana when their karmic connection ends. But if a lay follower attains
Arhatship and, within a day,
cannot find a
suitable teacher to perform the ordination ceremony for them, then they are
compelled to enter Nirvana, and cannot remain in
this physical body to save sentient beings
anymore; they cannot do that.
This is a truth, as you all understand, not something
dictated by the Buddha. The king then asked, "Having attained enlightenment,
why are you so eager to end your
life? Is there some mysterious reason?"
The King of Milan asked, "The lay
follower has already attained enlightenment." "
Well, why are you so eager to
enter Nirvana on that day? Is
it because the lay follower is impatient to
enter Nirvana, or for some
other reason?" Let's see
how the lay follower answers. The great king replied, "It's
not due to impatience, nor is there any
mysterious reason. The lay follower's character is
too low; he is truly unworthy of the
Arhatship he has attained.  Therefore, the
outward appearance must change; only the outward appearance that corresponds to and is worthy
of the Arhat state. We
understand that the outward appearance
refers to the physical form of the person who appears, which
contains the full merit of an
Arhat. Furthermore, the outward appearance of a
layperson like
us cannot contain the full
merit of an Arhat.
For example, imagine
a cup;
it only holds the amount of water corresponding to
the cup's capacity.
But when one attains the
Arhat state, that merit is so immense, it's
like holding a large block of water in your hand.
That's why we see that the outward appearance of the person who appears is extraordinary. That is, the outward appearance of the person who
appears can contain a
great deal of merit, but the outward appearance of a
layperson cannot contain
that merit.
Therefore, if a layperson attains the
Arhat state, this bag,
this flesh bag, cannot contain the merit,
so it must break. The flesh bag must be filled again, and the Arhat must
enter Nirvana. The
entire mass of merit must return to its
corresponding place, which is written and actual power.
But it is only a superficial appearance of the
person who has renounced the world. Yes,
Sister Quoc, the appearance of a person who has renounced the world is
complete with the conditions to be guided by a teacher
and to take on the form of a person who has
renounced the world, and to be given the
robe and the head by the teacher and the monastic community.
When those appearances contain a
very large amount of merit,
when we see the respect shown to the
person who has renounced the world, it is very worthy of respect, very worthy of respect.
As for the certificate of virtue and conduct of a person who has renounced the world,
we will discuss that later,
as you fellow practitioners. For example, also
within that appearance of a person who has renounced the world,
until at some point
this ignorant person commits many sins, too
many sins.
Well, there are two possible scenarios.
Firstly, their minds are not at peace, meaning they
lack sufficient merit, which prevents them from maintaining
the dignity of a
monastic life. They want to return to
secular life because their merit is
insufficient and they do
n't cultivate it further. This causes them to
feel restless and
uncomfortable. They feel uneasy and create
many obstacles to abandoning the dignity
of a monastic life.
Secondly, if they commit too many
sins,
they lose the physical form of a
monastic life, destroying
their spiritual essence. For example, Devadatta
was swallowed by the earth, and that's how it happened. You see,
in the realm of merit, it was
n't enough to maintain the
dignity of a monastic life.
I also want to discuss another aspect:
those who have renounced the world
but live recklessly and impulsively.
They lack virtue and moral conduct.  It's
not that they refuse to practice asceticism forever;
in fact, some live very
carelessly, living less than ordinary people
with morality.
Yes, so why do they still exist
in the form of a monastic?
Why do they still exist? Because each of
us also has merit and blessings.
Therefore, for them, such people are
using up all the
blessings they have. When the
conditions are right, they will leave this body and
go straight to hell, or fall down, or
help others to pay for their
karma. They will have used up all their blessings,
leaving only the accumulated sins they have
created. So even then, they still have
merit in their outward appearance, which is very impure.
We can still pay homage to them, right? For those who have attained
enlightenment, we pay
homage to all those who manifest in outward form
because the merit and virtue
of that outward form are so great;
that form can contain so
much merit,
it can contain the merits of all
beings.  A-la-han, but
yes, so we heard a
story about a
Zen master who was practicing in the forest of Vi. Because
his compassionate mind had
expanded greatly, he tamed
a tiger. The tiger was very fierce, called a
golden-furred tiger. A hunter, however,
wanted to hunt this golden-furred tiger for many consecutive days
because its fur was very valuable.
But every afternoon, the tiger would
come and lie down
beside the Zen master, meditating. The
tiger would lose its vigilance
and sleep soundly beside him,
not needing to be on guard at all.
So, the hunter devised a plan to
kill the Zen master,
cut his own hair, and cover it with the
Zen master's hair. Then, while meditating, the
tiger, out of habit, would come and
lie there. And when he had time to catch
it, after it had eaten its fill, he
would draw his bow and arrow to
sell it.  According to the reflexes and
determination to change the heart of
this robber, it's not a mind of fortune telling, so
touching the heart of the tiger makes
it react immediately. When the robber
was dirty, he would sell it, but when he
lunged, he saw the monk's robe.
Yes, he stopped, respectfully bowed to the monk's robe, and
accepted being
shot dead.
Yes, this tiger will surely be reborn in
heaven, it's not a joke. As for
the hunter, his fate
was to be beheaded by the king.
If you like, we can see that the
appearance of a monk is extremely
noble because that appearance contains the
merit of the Buddha.
Our brother is also a
monk, and
the appearance of a monk
contains the merit of a righteous and
enlightened being. Although
we greatly respect the appearance of a
monk, within the limited realm above,
if there is any
injustice because of a monk...  If someone
practices and destroys the Buddha's teachings
by doing evil deeds, let's
clearly point out that this monk is not keeping the precepts,
this monk has violated the precepts and moral rules.
This monk is not worthy of
respect in terms of moral conduct, nor is
he worthy of respect in terms of virtue.
However, we must not insult the
dignity of a monastic. For example,
we must not say, "This person has big
eyes, a nose like this,
split teeth, and a bowed back leg."
We should not discuss all the physical aspects of a monastic. Let's clarify this for you, dear fellow practitioners. We
shouldn't discuss those things; they
are merely a matter of the physical body, composed of the four elements.
But knowing that this physical body has become
very
noble,
in the sense that it embodies
virtue. For example,
if there is a box, a
box containing a diamond, a
very large diamond,
then whether that box is made of
iron, copper, lead, or
clay, do we have to protect the
box? No
matter how it's made...  No matter what, whether it's
gilded or just the outside, if by
chance it falls into the
dirty ground, we still
have to protect it because only by protecting that outer shell can we
protect the diamond
inside. That's why the image
of a monastic is a sacred image that
must be respected.
Those who are respected will be
reborn in a karmic cycle of retribution.
We should avoid the thought that, "
This person was a layperson before, they look dull and
warm,
but they can't be as talented as me, right? Their
beauty isn't as good as mine, their
speech isn't as fluent as mine, their intelligence isn't as good as mine,
therefore I
can't respect them."
That's a misguided description. It's
called ignorance and lack of enlightenment. Everything...
Oh, and even if that person's character is dull and their speech is bad,
once they've taken the
form of a monastic, we should
all show them respect. If we don't show
respect, there will surely be karmic consequences, right? If we can't
show respect, then we'll face the pressure of karmic retribution,
but no one forces us to be enlightened.  Respect is necessary, not forced.
Those with ambition know and
respect, those without ambition do not. If you don't respect,
the person leaving
won't say anything, but karma is
not silent; it can beat and torture you. Those of you on the path of
karma are your own karmic forces.
We are very fortunate,
very lucky, and very compassionate. It takes
many lifetimes to
attain
this karmic enlightenment, so we can stop creating
karma and only create merit. And Brother Quy, your outward appearance
is
extremely noble, like a vast
ocean containing water. But the outward
appearance of a layperson is like
a small cup, only holding a
limited amount of water. So, those of you on the path of karma,
don't be arrogant and think, "I am beautiful,"
remember? Just say, "I say, is it beautiful?" "
I say, it's not beautiful because it
doesn't contain much merit, right?
My outward appearance doesn't heal
much, that's
why I have to open my door and leave, and I
can heal a lot of merit,
freely creating merit."  There is assistance in treating the
physical appearance, so the person who leaves
after receiving the "Sorry" (meaning they haven't yet received the
robe of a monk)... The appearance and demeanor are also
within the appearance of the person who makes the robe,
that is, the hair and the robe itself. Only with such a robe
can the
merit of the Eight
Precepts be restored, and only with such a robe can the merit of the 250 Precepts be restored. That's the path of merit. We in the secular world change clothes constantly, but when monks leave the monastic life, when they receive the "Sorry," they only have one robe
because only that robe contains the
merit of the Eight Precepts and the Ten
Precepts. If the monks
forget their robe overnight, it's a loss, a loss of merit. They must
return to repentance. The monk should return here. The merit of the robe is what matters. I
kept wondering
why there could be a response on the person who
saw that. It's the karmic connection, the
karmic connection to
practice the path, the karmic connection to cultivate merit.
Yes, to put it into the karmic appearance.  The intention is to wait for the karmic connection
to see that if there is no perseverance,
then if one practices and accumulates merit,
they will attain enlightenment and enter Nirvana at
that time. It would be a waste of the atmosphere of
friendship, but if you want to help more people,
and then they enter Nirvana, then so be it. It's easy to see that tomorrow, at
this moment of disappointment, the egg is
not there. How can one love the teacher but
not see him? Where can one find him to
ask for his guidance? Then, on
that day, they must enter Nirvana, which would be a
great waste of the atmosphere of weakness. Therefore,
we must remember to respectfully observe the dignity of the monastics. The dignity of those who have renounced the world—today we are discussing this matter in detail. It requires careful sharing and understanding, because if we don't understand it well, we easily make mistakes. Of
course, we heard the
master's teachings very thoroughly the other day, but
today we are just repeating them.
Regarding those who have just renounced the world,
we see the answer and we
must immediately show respect,
unconditionally, okay? And speaking the
truth, if the monk...  But if we live a
dissolute and unrestrained life, seeing a monk and then going
after a woman, then going after a woman, then we will lose
sight of our master. We haven't
committed any offense against the
monastic order, but we will lose sight of the
precepts. Is it okay to
condemn the precepts? We can condemn the precepts, we can condemn heresy, we can
condemn freely, but we must not insult the
dignity of the monks. And what about the weak points?
This guy looks terrible. Some
people insult him. His
head looks like... what? What kind of weak
trajectory? Extremely dangerous!
Looking at his face, his clothes, his appearance... it
looks like this, this, and that. It's very
karmic if, in countless past lives,
we have unintentionally harmed or assaulted
someone, that is, if
we have beaten or insulted someone, if
we have ever been a
layperson in some lifetime and cultivated ourselves to become an
Arhat, then
surely on that day we will not
meet our master.  Where is the degree? It's impossible to
find it. It's mandatory to input the Ghz object;
it has very long-lasting harmful effects on the orbit of the
Dharma. Above, we are lay
practitioners who have died as Buddhas, and as lay practitioners at home, we
must be enlightened and respectful like the
Dharma practitioners. There are also some who
write with the word "Tao" (meaning "evil" or "wicked"). For example, I wrote about the mind's illumination.
Let me continue the discussion about "Tao." That's
the matter of guiding monks.
One person saw in Buddhist teachings that
guides monks to do charity work. They
do good deeds, guiding
monks in that way, but they don't guide
monks to cultivate virtue, morality, concentration, and wisdom
during meditation to achieve liberation. Instead, they
guide monks to do
charity work. The principle of building a Pure
Land in the human world, the Buddhist path across the five continents and
four oceans,
is a "Tao" (meaning "left-wing" or "left-wing") thought.
Why is it called "Tao"? The six realms of reincarnation in the human realm are merely a
stepping stone for
everyone, not a path to a Pure Land. Even in the
human realm, there are still five realms of evil, and the
world's defilements directly affect the lives of sentient beings.
Elder Phiền, the elder, has taken on
human form, and it will never transform
this human realm into a pure land. It's
impossible to transform all of us. We all suffer from the
eight sufferings that the Buddha taught about. The eight sufferings are
suffering because we are human and
cannot help but hope for them. Those who enter the lineage of
Khánh
Ừ... Then there's the matter of suffering because humans still
have love and hate, so who can understand the suffering of
resentment and hatred? Human suffering
in this worldly development is the
development of the five desires, and yet a
teacher advocates building
schools and saving the sick, all sorts of things,
to become a pure land. That mind has never been truly
pure. That's what's called a
good mind, not a flourishing one. Flourishing means
silence, no more desires or cravings, and purity.
I intend to go to Vietnam for mechanical engineering.  So
why has such a misguided and erroneous ideology arisen?
It stems from
self-deprecation. The Buddha never said, "I am the Tathagata,"
nor did he ever intend to
transform this Saha world into a Pure Land. The Buddha never
said such a thing, nor did he intend to, nor did he teach or even raise an Sangha in that way, is that right,
dear fellow practitioners?
The duty of the Sangha is
to practice morality, concentration, and
wisdom, to practice meditation
to achieve liberation. That is how to ensure the
longevity of Buddhism in the world and bring happiness
to sentient beings. Yet, there is a
thought that fears building a Pure Land in this world
and rejects the Pure Land in the West,
saying that the Western Pure Land does not exist, that it is not
real, and that a Pure Land must be built
right here in this world. How can a
Pure Land be built in this world? Only
a disciple of the Buddha should cultivate a
Pure Land mind here; only then will they achieve the
Pure Land if their mind is focused on this.  There is a
Pure Land, meaning we have eradicated all greed, hatred, and delusion,
right? Or, by gradually reducing greed, hatred, and
delusion, we go to the heavenly realm or what is called the Pure
Land. That's the reaction of the esteemed fellow practitioners,
not that after we die, there is
no Pure Land. So where does that
pure mind go?
Where does it go?
Don't let anyone harbor delusional thoughts that
they will build this realm into a Pure Land. If they
build this realm into a Pure Land,
then that person will naturally have the power to make
one realm in the six realms of reincarnation disappear—that is the
human realm. See? A girl named "shen-
shi" (desire and delusion)—if that person has enough power
to build this realm into a Pure Land,
then that person has enough power to
transform people in the human realm so that
no one has greed, hatred, or delusion left,
right? Isn't that incredibly delusional and arrogant?
Thinking you can do that, for
example... Why is that considered a
delusional and arrogant thought? Now, imagine
someone thinking, "I will
live in a 5-star castle on the sea foam. Can I build that,
baby boss?"  It's a drop in darkness
in a very short period of time, and it's
unbearable.
You can build a
5-star castle, a 5-star hotel on the
waves of the sea. The person who
thinks, "I will build a 5-star castle
on the waves of the sea," is delusional. The
person who thinks they can
build a Pure Land in this human realm is
equally delusional. Is that
right? How can you make the
human realm disappear and become a Pure Land?
And then make another realm disappear
in the cycle of reincarnation. Is that true?
How can a person achieve a Pure Land?
Because the Buddha,
precisely on that day, could only save those
beings who had a karmic connection with that day. The
Arhats could only save
those who had a karmic connection with them,
not all beings. Because
on this earth, how many
babies are born each day, carrying with them greed, hatred, and delusion?
They come to us, to our
human realm. Except for those who are reborn and make vows, the
rest come with greed and hatred.
So, if it continues like
that, who can build this realm? It's
called the Pure Land of Tranquility and Peace. Therefore, one should
think that Buddhism today
can build a
pure land in
this world. It's impossible to build one. Even in the monastic community of the Buddhas of old, there were still
those who attained enlightenment and those who fell. During the time of our Buddha Shakyamuni, there
were two
groups of monks: the Six Groups of Monks, the Group of Monks of
Defilement, the Group of Monks of Separation ...
They
slandered each other, and the Buddha could do nothing about it,
and had to leave. Yet, we
have the delusion of building a Pure Land
in this world.
That's a martial fantasy, no different from a
martial fantasy of trying to build a castle on sea foam.
That's a
crazy idea. This opinion is truly insane.
Pay attention to the truth.
Yes, if we don't think and
study the Dharma, we will continue to criticize
this matter. It's so interesting. Buddhism today is about dedication, that is,
dedication to the world.
Buddhism today will still be about what it was like in the past. In the past, no
one dared to think of transforming
the human realm into a Pure Land.
No one dared to think of it, not even the Fully Enlightened Ones or the great Arhats.
No one dared to think
of transforming this Saha world, this
evil age, into a Pure Land.
Yet, some people have the idea
that Buddhism today is about dedication,
Buddhism today is glorious, Buddhism across the five
continents and four oceans will build a Pure Land in this world.  How can
one still build something like that? Knowing
that a real gift is a plan, something
people call a banyan tree,
you're not crazy or deranged.
Yes, you're skilled in the arts, but you can't be
cold, you have a little bit of thought about
your abilities, about your moral conduct. Then it
turns out you're even more than the Buddha,
more than February. Why would
even the fully enlightened one have such thoughts? The fully enlightened one
even said, "I am
just a younger sibling, I can only save those beings with karmic connections."
Yet
this whole world wants to transform
this world into a place of
saving humanity, such arrogance and registration as a fellow practitioner. So, regarding those monks with such arrogant and deranged thoughts, we still respect their appearance and monastic demeanor, but we
cannot accept such thoughts
and mental stimulation. We cannot accept such thoughts. It's
unacceptable. Having
such thoughts is
wrong towards the Buddhas and fellow practitioners. We
cannot surpass the
patriarchs, those holy monks, who also did
not do that.  If that's the case, then it's no different than
people honoring the position the teacher said,
and thinking that if Buddha couldn't do it,
then today's Buddhism can. The Buddhism of the
past, of
Shakyamuni Buddha, couldn't do it, that's too self-centered.
You and Kinki, the original Buddhist path, the
weak path, the Buddhist scriptures, the Bible, you see it as not being possible,
so I say that the Heart Sutra, the Buddhist
scriptures, the Bible, the mind, insults, and a
crazy opinion,
hoping, thinking like that is wrong,
attacking, but still the dignified appearance of a
monastic, still respectful like the other
pathists, okay? I am the Buddha
Shakyamuni, let's dedicate the
merits, the German police, all
crying rain, all for me to report, and they are
beautiful, carrying the whole Buddha altar, uh
uh
[music]
uh uh